English
Course
Level 2
  Lecture 2
 Spring 2026
WHAT YOU WILL LEARN TODAY

 Writing
           01

                 02
                  Listening & Speaking
                         Writing
Writing is expressing thoughts, ideas, or information. It serves as a means of
   communication that allows people to convey their messages across time
  and space. Writing can take many forms, including stories, essays, articles,
     poems, letters, reports, etc. It is a crucial skill for sharing knowledge,




                      02
   telling stories, documenting events, and persuading or informing others.
                          Writing Basics
                                           Paragraphs
Introduction                               Each paragraph should
Introduce the topic,                       focus on one or two ideas.
present the main idea                      Use Coherence, (First,
or argument.                               however,…etc)

Body                                       Sentences
Paragraphs, should
focus on one or two                        Should include simple
ideas. Provide examples                    sentences.
and explanations for                       Simple sentences should
each point.                                include one idea.


Conclusion                                 Punctuation
Summarize the ideas,                       Beginning of the sentence,
and recap the main                         use Capital letters.
ideas. End with final                      (ABCDE,….)
recommendations and                        End of sentences, use a
insights.                                  full stop (.)
                                  Keep it simple: Use simple words and short sentences for
Writing Process                   clarity. Avoid overcomplicating your writing.




                                          Revising                   Editing & Proofreading
                                        Reviewing and improving
                                        the content.                 Correcting grammar,
                                                                     punctuation, spelling, and style.
                                                                     A final check for any minor errors
                                                                     or typos before publishing or
                                                                     submitting.


 Pre-writing           Drafting
 Planning &
 Brainstorming ideas   Writing the first version
                       based on your outline.
          Essays
To explore, explain, or argue a
 topic or an opinion. Can be
 informative, persuasive, or
          reflective.
                          What’s an essay?
Choose the correct answers. You must choose more than one option in two questions.
1. What is an essay?
A. a description of an event or experience, giving a personal view
B. a piece of writing about a particular subject, usually with the writer’s own opinions
C. a piece of writing that gives facts and details about a situation or an event
Answer: B
2. Who might we write an essay for?
A. a friend or relative
B. an unknown audience
C. a tutor or lecturer
Answer: B & C
                        What’s an essay?
Choose the correct answers. You must choose more than one option in two questions.

3. Which of the following do you find in an essay?

A. an introduction

B. a conclusion

C. a main idea

D. lots of difficult vocabulary

Answer: A, B & C
                        What’s an essay?
Read the writing task and underline the keywords. Then, choose the correct answer in
the question below.
Many students work while they are studying.

What are the advantages and disadvantages of working while you study?
What do you need to write about?
A. the difficulty of studying
B. how study prepares you for work
C. working and studying at the same time
Answer: C
                      What’s an essay?
Introduce advantages and disadvantages
Look at the phrases in the box for introducing advantages and disadvantages.
One advantage/disadvantage is ...
The main advantage/disadvantage is ...
Another advantage/disadvantage/problem is ...


Write sentences for the essay about the advantages and disadvantages of working and
studying at the same time.
                        What’s an essay?
A. Match the parts of the essay (1-4) with the paragraphs (A-D).

A. As well as studying hard at university, there are many opportunities to do extra-curricular

activities while you are there. There are all sorts of different clubs that you can join, for

example.

B. In my view, the main advantage of doing extra-curricular activities is that you make a lot of

friends. You get on well with each other because you share the same interest. Another

advantage is that you can learn a new skill - how to ski or fly a helicopter, for example -

relatively cheaply. Obviously, it is a good idea to make the most of that opportunity.
                           What’s an essay?
A. Match the parts of the essay (1-4) with the paragraphs (A-D).

C. There are also disadvantages. One disadvantage is the fact that doing extra-curricular

activities can take a lot of time away from your studies. It is easy to take on too many new

things and this means you do not have enough time to go to the library or write your

assignments. You have to find the right balance between study and fun. Another problem is that

doing extra-curricular activities means you do not have the time to do a part-time job. This

means that you can finish university with big debts.
D. My personal opinion is that taking part in extra-curricular activities is a good thing. It is an
opportunity to develop old interests and to take up new ones, and it is one of the best ways of
making close friends while you are at university.
                        What’s an essay?
A. Match the parts of the essay (1-4) with the paragraphs (A-D).
the disadvantages
Answer: C
introducing the topic
Answer: A
the conclusion
Answer: D
the advantages
Answer: B
Listening & Speaking


    03
Listen to two students talking about one of their families and answer the
questions.
1. Why does Ken get on well with his brother?
They are closer in age; they have similar interests.


2. Why is he not as close to his sister?
He’s eight years younger than her; they don’t have much in common.


3. How is Ken different from his mother?
He’s not as sociable as she is.
Listen to two students talking about one of their families and answer the
questions.


4. Why do Ken and his father sometimes disagree?
They have very different personalities.


5. Why is his grandmother his favorite person?
She’s the most cheerful person he knows.
    Speaking
 Work in pairs. Take turns to ask and answer these questions about your
 families. Remember to explain and justify your answers.

1. Do you have a large or small family?
2. Do you all live together in the same house?
3. Who do you get on best with in your family?
4. Are people in your country generally close to their
   families?
5. Do you prefer spending time with friends or family?
 THANKS!
 For Contact:
 Fatma.Fathy@ecu.edu.eg
 Monay.Mohamed@ecu.edu.eg
 Rana.Jamal@ecu.edu.eg
 Alzahraa.Mandour@ecu.edu.eg
 Omnia.Amr@ecu.edu.eg
 Dina.Sherif@ecu.edu.eg
 Tasneem.Abbas@ecu.edu.eg
 Farha.Adel@ecu.edu.eg
CREDITS: This presentation template was created
by Slidesgo, including icons by Flaticon, and
infographics & images by Freepik
